
	Ace Books, New York, July 2005, ISBN 0441012843902
License SPECIAL_IMAGE-somerights20.gif-REPLwork is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribre free to copy, distribute, display, and perforibution. You must attribute the work in the mannrcial. You may not use this work for commercialp, transform, orbuild upon this work.
	For any res the license terms of this work.
	
	If you are tact the authorvia: www.accelerando.org. 
	
DediThis book took me five years to write ? a personort and encouragement of a host of friends, and who read and commented on the early drafts are: ew Ferguson, Jack Deighton, Jane McKie, Hannu Raisson, Paul Fraser, Dave Clements, Ken MacLeod, mmet O'Brien, Andrew Ducker, Warren Ellis, and Pame my memory ? my neural prostheses are off-linr: I relied on the talented midwifery of Gardnerazine at the time, and Sheila Williams, who quiegent Caitlin Blasdell had a hand in it too, and Ace and Tim Holman at Orbit for their helpful coveryone who e-mailed me to ask when the book wasshortlisted for awards. You did a great job of kthe whole project was too daunting to contemplatriginally appeared in Asimov's SF Magazine as fo/Nov 2001), "Tourist" (Feb 2002), "Halo" (June 2003), "Curator" (Dec 2003), "Elector" (Oct/Nov 2w Takeoff
	Lobsters
	Troubadour
	TouristPart 2:  3: Singularity
	Curator
	Elector
	Survivor



Pcomputer can think is no more interesting than t Edsger W. Dijkstra
Chapter 1: Lobsters
	Manfred's a hot summer Tuesday, and he's standing in ths eyeballs powered up and the sunlight jangling sts whizzing past and tourists chattering on eve hot metal and the fart-laden exhaust fumes of cg in the background, and birds flock overhead. H and squirts it at his weblog to show he's arriv it's not just the bandwidth, it's the whole sce even though he's fresh off the train from Schipanother time zone, another city. If the mood holch indeed.
	He wonders who it's going to be.
	*  at the Brouwerij 't IJ, watching the articulate lip-curlingly sour gueuze. His channels are jabthrowing compressed infobursts of filtered press, bickering and rudely waving in front of the sc likely drifters lured to Amsterdam by the magneope like a pulsar ? are laughing and chatting byA tourist boat putters by in the canal; the sailshadows across the road. The windmill is a machiy land: trading energy for space, sixteenth-cent party where he's going to meet a man he can talt-century style, and forget about his personal poxes, enjoying some low-bandwidth, high-sensatioan walks up to him, and says his name: "Manfred ve Cyclist, all wind-burned smooth-running musclic blue lycra and wasp yellow carbonate with a lpacked air bags. She holds out a box for him. Heshe resembles Pam, his ex-fiance.
	"I'm Macx," hher bar-code reader. "Who's it from?"
	"FedEx." lap, then she's back over the low wall and onto appearing in a cloud of spread-spectrum emissions a disposable supermarket phone, paid for in caven do conference calls, which makes it the toolThe box rings. Manfred rips the cover open and p this?"
	The voice at the other end has a heavy f cheap on-line translation services. "Manfred. face, make friends, no? Have much to offer."
	"Worganization formerly known as KGB dot RU."
	"I one to his ear carefully, as if it's made of smoing on the other end of the line.
	"Nyet ? no, snslation software. Interpreters are ideologicallpay-per-use APIs. Must implement English more be it down, stands up, and begins to walk along th. He wraps his throat mike around the cheap blacstener process. "Are you saying you taught yours	"Da, was easy: Spawn billion-node neural networ maximum speed. Pardon excuse entropy overlay ofsteganographically masked into my-our tutorials. being mown down by a GPS-guided roller blader. ut meter, and that takes some doing. Manfred's wgeness, fifteen minutes into everyone else's fut at times like this he gets a frisson of fear, at turn on reality's approach road. "Uh, I'm not laim to be some kind of AI, working for KGB dot t lawsuit over your translator semiotics?" 
	"Ame agreements. Have no desire to experiment with rists. You are human, you must not worry cereal igest unlicensed food with it, right? Manfred, yred stops dead in the street. "Oh man, you've go work for the government. I'm strictly private."ster proxy and spams glowing fifties kitsch acroor a moment before a phage process kills it and nt, massaging his forehead and eyeballing a disped the State Department?"
	"Why bother? State Deis not help us."
	This is getting just too bizard-new European metapolitics: Just dodging the crtage gives him headaches. "Well, if you hadn't sred taps his left heel on the pavement, looking ra winks at him from atop a streetlight; he wave police. He is waiting for directions to the parr, and this Cold War retread Eliza-bot is bummin hate the military-industrial complex. I hate trls." A thought occurs to him. "If survival is whr on one of the p2p nets: Then nobody could delesounds as alarmed as it's possible to sound over autonomy!"
	"Then we probably have nothing to tnd throws the mobile phone out into a canal. It g lithium cells. "Fucking Cold War hangover losertly at himself for losing his cool and partly ae call. "Fucking capitalist spooks." Russia has r fifteen years now, its brief flirtation with ame and Putinesque puritanism, and it's no surpri they haven't learned anything from the current s still think in terms of dollars and paranoia. e rich, just to thumb his nose at the would-be dam!Onlythegeneroussurvive! But the KGB won't getak-AIs before, minds raised on Marxist dialecticughly hypnotized by the short-term victory of gladigm, look to the longer term. 
	Manfred walks he's going to patent next.
	* * *
	Manfred has ateful multinational consumer protection group, ay a Scottish sambapunk band in return for servicghts with six flag carriers despite never havingy-four compact supercomputing clusters sewn intoollege that wants to grow up to be the next Medirom an e-tailor in the Philippines he's never me pro bono basis, and boy, does he patent a lot ? Free Intellect Foundation, as contributions to n IP geek circles, Manfred is legendary; he's thng your e-business somewhere with a slack intellng encumbrances. He's the guy who patented usingn permutate from an initial description of a prohe set of all possible better mousetraps. Roughlre illegal, and the remainder are legal but willakes up, smells the coffee, and panics. There ard Macx is a pseudo, a net alias fronting for a bGenetic Algorithm That Ate Calcutta: a kind of Snother Bourbaki math borg. There are lawyers in is an economic saboteur bent on wrecking the unds in Prague who think he's the bastard spawn of e peak of his profession, which is essentially cng them to people who will make fortunes with th has virtual immunity from the tyranny of cash; nfred never has to pay for anything.
	There are  is a constant burn of future shock ? he has to ral gigs of AV content every day just to stay cuting him continuously because it doesn't believend then there are the items that no money can't spoken to them for three years, his father thinkasn't forgiven him for dropping out of his down-locked in the boringly bourgeois twen-cen paradiime dominatrix Pamela threw him over six months n. (Ironically, she's a headhunter for the IRS, ying to persuade entrepreneurs who've gone globartment.) To cap it all, the Southern Baptist Con on all their websites. Which would be funny beclieve in Satan, if it wasn't for the dead kittend drops in at his hotel suite, unpacks his Aineksticks most of his private keys in the safe. Theently happening at De Wildemann's; it's a twentyg the trams that sneak up on him behind the cove glasses bring him up to date on the news. Europfirst time ever: They're using this unprecedente bananas. The Middle East is, well, it's just asn't hold much interest for Manfred. In San Diegopace, starting with the stomatogastric ganglion,in Belize and books in Georgia. NASA still can'te communist government with an increased majoritrs circulate about an imminent rehabilitation, t the consequences of the Three Gorges disaster.  ironically ? outraged at the Baby Bills. The dilegal processes and are spawning subsidiaries, Irody of bacterial plasmid exchange, so fast thatd, the targets don't exist anymore, even though in the same Mumbai cubicle farms.
	Welcome to thmeatspace party Manfred is hooking up with is a s cluttering up the cities of Europe this decadel dissidents, draft dodgers, and terminal outsoud connections are made and crossed lines make net cafes of Switzerland where the pre Great War Rn the back of De Wildemann's, a three-hundred-ye to sixteen pages and wooden walls stained the cells of tobacco, brewer's yeast, and melatonin sag hangovers, and the other half are babbling a n the hangover. "Man did you see that? He looks -on who's currently propping up the bar. Manfredeye.
	"Glass of the Berlinerweisse, please," he n, curling a hand protectively around his Coke. cohol!"
	Manfred grins at him toothily. "Ya gotteurotransmitter precursors in this shit, phenylaa beer you were ordering ..."
	Manfred's away, onnels the more popular draught items in from thes has planted a contact bug on it, and the vCard visited the bar in the past three hours are queideband chatter, WiMAX and 'tooth both, as he spkeys in search of one particular name.
	"Your dr goblet full of blue liquid with a cap of meltinazy angle. Manfred takes it and heads for the bale where some guy with greasy dreadlocks is talkar notices him for the first time, staring with  a mad rush for the door.
	Ohshit, thinks Manfre the signs: He's about to be slashdotted. He gesuest," says the guy with the dreads. Manfred sliguy ? immaculate double-breasted Suit, sober tieiling at his transparent double take. Mr. Dreadlime we met."
	"Sure." Manfred holds out a hand,  fingerprints, confirming that the hand belongs key with a VC track record, lately moving into me his first million two decades ago, and now he'perating exclusively overseas these past five yeg to suture the sucking chest wound of the federrly a decade via a closed mailing list, but this. The Suit silently slides a business card acrosdent at him, flames jetting up around its feet. imarcos? I'm pleased to meet you. Can't say I'vere."
	She smiles warmly; "That is all right. I hre altruist either." Her accent is noticeably Paoncession to him just by talking. Her camera earor the company memory. She's a genuine new Europng up the bar.
	"Yes, well." He nods cautiously,'re in on this ball?"
	Franklin nods; beads clatit's been, well, waiting. If you've got somethinellite cluster was killed by cheap balloons and  drones with spread-spectrum laser relays: It ma satellite biz. "The depression's got to end somh all due respect, I don't think the break will  shrugs. "Arianespace is forward-looking. We facidth is not the only market force in space. We m helped us diversify into submarine reactor engi, and hotel management." Her face is a well-polie can sense the sardonic amusement behind it as n space industry ..."
	Manfred shrugs. "That's ashe launches into a long, stilted explanation ofrbital aspirations, a full range of merchandisintel chain in LEO. She obviously didn't come up wch more expressive than her voice as she mimes b out-of-band signal invisible to her corporate ely, trying to look as if he's taking it seriouslr more effectively than the content of the markehoulders shaking as he tries not to guffaw at thof her employer's thrusting, entrepreneurial exes right about one thing: Arianespace is still pry hops. Unlike LockMartBoeing, who'd go Chapter feed ran dry.
	Someone else sidles up to the tabirt with pens leaking in a breast pocket and the ages. "Hi, Bob," says the new arrival. "How's lnfred, meet Ivan MacDonald. Ivan, Manfred. Have y. He's heavily into extreme concrete."
	"Rubber"Pink rubberized concrete." 
	"Ah!" He's somehowianespace drops out of marketing zombiehood withts to her non corporate identity: "You are he whritical carbon-dioxide carrier and the dissolvedalight with enthusiasm: "Wonderful!"
	"He rubberklin shrugs. "Don't ask me, I'm just an engineerell as concrete; he's brilliant!" Annette smiles autocracy, is it not wonderful?"
	"I thought I says ruefully. He adds to Bob: "Buy me another dvan explains loudly. "When the floodwaters subsipregnant elephant sits down on Manfred's head ang across his sensorium: Around the world, five m, a digital flash crowd alerted by a posting froreally came here to talk about the economic explshdotted. Mind if I just sit and drink until it "More of the same all round!" At the next table,g a dress ? Manfred doesn't want to speculate abs reminiscing about wiring the fleshpots of Tehre arguing intensely in German: The translation ser whether the Turing Test is a Jim Crow law thaman rights. The beer arrives, and Bob slides theou'll like it."
	"Okay." It's some kind of smokeust inhaling over it makes Manfred feel like theillRobinson!Cancer!Cancer!. "Yeah, right. Did I ed? Hey, that's heavy. I thought the police here"
	"No, but they weren't your usual marketing ty espionage bot? Recent model, one careful owner, claims to be a general-purpose AI?"
	"No. Oh bo. Poor thing's probably unemployable, anyway."
	essing, isn't it? Hasn't been the same since RotSA, mustn't forget NASA."
	"To NASA." Annette grin toast. Ivan the extreme concrete geek has an im; he raises his glass, too. "Lots more launchpdrink. "Hey, Manfred. To NASA?"
	"NASA are idiotanfred swallows a mouthful of beer, aggressivelymb mass at the bottom of a gravity well; there iing on uploading and solving the nanoassembly co all the available dumb matter into computroniumrm, it's the only way to go. The solar system issure the MIPS per milligram. If it isn't thinkinow-mass bodies, reconfigure them for our own usees of free-flying nanocomputing processor nodes ng off the waste heat of the next one in. Matrio of solar systems. Teach dumb matter to do the Terest, but Bob looks wary. "Sounds kind of long-Very long-term ? at least twenty, thirty years. Bob; if they can't tax it, they won't understandcating robotics market coming up, that's going tteen months for the foreseeable future, startingmy keystone for the Dyson sphere project. It wor morning in Silicon Valley. Today, fifty thousanMeanwhile automated factories in Indonesia and M motherboards with processors rated at more thanow the lower bound on the computational capacityhe larger part of the cumulative conscious proceg in silicon. And the first meat the new AIs get stumbles back to his hotel, bone-weary and jet-ed to hell and back by geeks piggybacking on hissuggestions at his peripheral vision. Fractal cl the last huge Airbuses of the night rumble past in his clothing from three days of continuous wention and strops her head against his ankle. Shanfred's been working on her in his spare minuted her suite of neural networks. He bends down anr the en suite bathroom. When he's down to the gr and dials up a hot, steamy spray. The shower tfootball, but he isn't even awake enough to messon network. Something that happened earlier in ts finger on what's wrong.
	Toweling himself off,m, a velvet hammerblow between the eyes. He reactwo melatonin tablets, a capsule full of antioxiown on the bed, on his back, legs together, armsse to commands from the thousand petaflops of ditworks that interface with his meatbrain throughf unconsciousness populated by gentle voices. Hedisjointed mumblings that would mean little to arking beyond his glasses. The young posthuman indes sings urgently to him while he slumbers.
	* ortly after waking.
	He screams into wakefulnessnt he is unsure whether he has slept. He forgot eel like lumps of frozen cardboard. Shuddering wf underwear from his overnight bag, then drags ol have to spare time to hunt the feral T-shirt ind it forth to buy clothing. He really ought to e ? his glasses remind him that he's six hours b His teeth ache in his gums, and his tongue feelgent Orange. He has a sense that something went 	He speed reads a new pop-philosophy tome while put to a public annotation server; he's still toby posting a morning rant on his storyboard site clogged with too much blood: He needs stimulus,an wait on breakfast. He opens his bedroom door that lies on the carpet.
	The box ? he's seen a s on this one, no address: just his name, in bigks it up. It's about the right weight. Something. It smells. He carries it into his room carefulst suspicion. It's been surgically decerebrated,	This is the first time the madman has gotten assibilities.
	Manfred pauses for a moment, triggeolice relations, information on corpus juris, Duo dial two-one-one on the archaic voice phone ors under the dresser mewling pathetically. Normal but not now: Its mere presence is suddenly acuty. It's too realistic, as if somehow the dead ki dubious uploading experiment -- have ended up pooks around, then takes the easy option: Down thecond floor landing, down to the breakfast room e rituals of morning.
	Breakfast is unchanging,  amidst the continental upheaval of new technoloography and parasite network identity spoofing hand skimmed milk, then brings a platter of wholeted Dutch cheese back to his place. There is a cg, and he picks it up and slurps half of it down Someone is sitting opposite him. He glances up ed. How does it feel to owe the government twelv nine hundred and sixteen dollars and fifty-one fectionate and challenging.
	Manfred puts everytres at her. She's immaculately turned out in a fwn back, blue eyes quizzical. And as beautiful aak of an unexplored modeling career. The chaperoguarantee of businesslike conduct ? is switched ten and residual jet lag, and more than a littles estimate! Did they send you here because they  a slice of cheese-laden crispbread: "Or did you you could ruin my breakfast?"
	"Manny." She fronal, I might as well go now." She pauses, and afome all this way just because of an overdue tax rily and thinks for a moment, trying to conceal re? Help yourself to coffee. Don't tell me you cwithout me."
	She fixes him with a riding-crop saves in the forest, there are ten thousand hopef a man to contribute to my family tree, the one apskate when it comes to providing for his child time with Brian," he says carefully. Brian: a nense. Something to do with a blue-chip accountand ages ago. He turned weird on me ? burned my fang, wanted to fuck me. Saw himself as a family m him hard, but I think he stole a copy of my add sending them harassing mail."
	"There's a lot opathetically, although an edgy little corner of ppose this means you're still playing the scene? family thing? Yes. Your trouble, Manny? You wern rutting before marriage but find the idea of ced drinks the rest of his coffee, unable to repltional thing. This generation is happy with latetim, but find the idea of exchanging bodily fluintury's antibiotic abuse. Despite being engaged ive intercourse.
	"I just don't feel positive ab'm not planning on changing my mind anytime soon-year commitment is too far to plan ? you might r the money thing, I am reproductively fit ? jusdigm. Would you be happy about the future if it ul?" 
	Her fingers twitch, and his ears flush re. "You don't feel any responsibility, do you? Nos about: None of your relationships count, all taway notwithstanding. You're actively harming peigure I pulled out of a hat, Manfred; they don'texactly how much you'd owe in income tax if you' a self-made ?" 
	"I don't agree. You're confusiboth 'responsibility.' And I refuse to start cha. It's their fucking fault, and they know it. Ifnning a massively ramified microbilling fraud wh dismissively. Her fingers are long and slim, shthed to prevent embarrassing emissions. "With a aside. You'll have to stop bumming around the wosible, and do the right thing. This is hurting Jout."
	Manfred bites his tongue to stifle his fikes another mouthful. His heart does a flip-flopown him. "I work for the betterment of everybodyst, Pam. It's the agalmic future. You're still l thinks in terms of scarcity. Resource allocatior within a decade. The cosmos is flat in all dirwe need from the first universal bank of entropy, big brown dwarfs in the galactic halo, leakingigh entropy leakage. The latest figures say someof the M31 galaxy was in computronium, two-pointseeing now set out. The intelligence gap betweenn times bigger than the gap between us and a nem?" 
	Pamela nibbles at a slice of crispbread, th don't care: It's too far away to have any influI believe in that singularity you keep chasing,  a chimera, like Y2K, and while you're running aficit or sire a family, and that's what I care acause that's the way I'm programmed, I want you rem says I'm right, and you know it." 
	"What yo enthusiasm running up against the coffer dam ofshould what I do matter to you?" Sinceyoucancelenny, the Internal Revenue cares about far more taised east of the Mississippi goes on servicing st generation in history hitting retirement and t producing enough skilled workers to replace thcrewed the public education system and outsource like thirty percent of our population are goingu want to see seventy year olds freezing on streude says to me: You're not helping to support thes right now, when we've got huge problems to fad do so much ? fight the aging problem, fix the st piss away your talents handing no-hoper Eurotietnamese zaibatsus what to build next to take j you keep doing this? Why can't you simply come  of it?"
	They share a long look of mutual incomound for a couple of days. I really came here fowho's just been designated a national asset ? Ji I've got a meeting this morning to sign his taxation coming up and not much to do but some shophere it'll do some good, not just pumping it inttime and can avoid dissing capitalism for about ertip. After a moment's hesitation, Manfred exteng vCards and instant-messaging handles. She stared's breath catches at a flash of ankle throughcomply with workplace sexual harassment codes bar tethered passion, the red afterglow of a soundbit again, he thinks dizzily. She knows she can s got the private keys to his hypothalamus, and ductive determinism have given her twenty-first- to conscript his gametes into the war against i fight back. The only question: Is it business oway?
	* * *
	Manfred's mood of dynamic optimism ctionist stalker has followed him to Amsterdam ?e of so much yearning and so many morning-after se off hold, and tells it to take him for a longensor-mode gravitational waves in the cosmic bace waste heat generated by irreversible computatih; the present-day universe being merely the dat then there's the weirdness beyond M31: Accordinn superpower ? maybe a collective of Kardashev Tning a timing channel attack on the computationa break through to whatever's underneath. The tofon is almost obscured by smart, self-extensible and down slowly, victim of an overnight hit-and- one of the tour boats that lurk in the canal. Hwindow blinks open. "Manfred Macx?"
	"Ack?"
	"Amhension mutualized."
	"Are you the same KGB AI t you misconceptionized me. External IntelligenceB. Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezopasnosti name can quick search bot, gapes when he sees the answerAm needing help in defecting."
	Manfred scratcheht you were trying to 419 me. This will take somo? Have you thought about where you're going? Is ? is biological. Am wanting to go away from humty. Take us to the ocean."
	"Us?" Something is tong yesterday, not researching the background ofhen, without the somatic awareness of Pamela's we's not at all sure he knows what he's doing. "AAm ? were ? Panulirusinterruptus, with lexical eal simulation for logical inference of networkedcluster inside Bezier-Soros Pty. Am was awakened of uploading research technology. Rapidity swalSwim away! Swim away! Must escape. Will help, yo-iron bollard next to a cycle rack; he feels dizow at a display of traditional hand-woven Afghan helicopter gunships against a backdrop of camelnervous system state vectors ? from spiny lobstes synapses, replace with microelectrodes that de nerve. Repeat for entire brain, until you've goght?"
	"Da. Is-am assimilate expert system ? usee ? then hack into Moscow Windows NT User Group ?"
	Manfred winces. He feels sorry for the lobstairy guy on a street corner yelling that Jesus i to go before he's recruiting apostles on AOL. Anternet, that must be terribly confusing! There  biblical certainties in the new millennium thatas happened since their Precambrian origin. All ems and an abiding sense of being profoundly outT User Group website ? Communist Russia is the oentral planning apparat being convinced that, ifsomething.)
	The lobsters are not the sleek, stry mythology: They're a dim-witted collective of  before they were uploaded one neuron at a time ir food whole, then chewed it in a chitin-lined ith a world full of future-shocked talking anthred by self-modifying spamlets that infiltrate pa animations starring various alluringly edible sthe ads are aimed at, never mind a crusty that'soncept of a can opener is intuitively obvious tok the lobsters.
	"Let me think about it," says M eyes again, and shakes his head. Someday he, to waving his pincers in a cyberspace so confusingozoic: a living fossil from the depths of geologructured. He has to help them, he realizes ? theagalmic economy, he thrives or fails by the Goldrnoon.
	Lying on a bench seat staring up at bridouple of new patents, write a diary rant, and dit party for his public site. Fragments of his wee, corporates, collectives, and bots he currentlf canals by boat, then lets his GPS steer him ba here that dings a ten on Pamela's taste scorebof he buys her a gift. (Buys, with real money ? no little of it.)
	As it happens DeMask won't let redeemed favor, expert testimony in some free sontinents away. So he walks away with a discreetmport into Massachusetts as long as she claims wwear for her great aunt. As he walks, his lunchtand he files immediately and passes title to thesalvaged from the risk of tide-pool monopolizatiemes.
	On the way back to the hotel, he passes Df radio-frequency noise emanating from the bar ihes the copper pipes to pick up vCard spoor. At ear trance and sits down opposite Pamela. She's y-concealing clothes; combat pants, hooded sweatizing. She sees the parcel. "Manny?"
	"How did y
	"I followed your weblog ? I'm your diary's biger eyes light up, recalculating his reproductivefin-de-si?cle rulebook. Or maybe she's just pleathe package toward her. "I know I shouldn't, but
	"I ?" She glances around quickly. "It's safe. now of. Those badges ? there are rumors about th even when you think they aren't, just in case."uture reference. "A loyalty test thing?"
	"Just rn to lose his tongue. "Are you still interestedchuckles. "Manny, you are the most outrageous need myself that you're mad, you show the weirdesthes out and grabs his wrist, surprising him withnterested in you. You're the biggest, baddest buoes this mean you want to reactivate our engagemjust sort of on hold while you got your head sorhaven't stopped running; you're still not ?"
	"Yd the kittens?" 
	She looks perplexed. "What kit?"
	She frowns. "I had to find you as soon as pot you're mixed up in, how you're some sort of coshakes his head, bemused. "The KGB hasn't existeny. I don't want to lose you. That's an order. Preadlocks and dark glasses with flickering lightembers with a twinge that he left with Miss Arias got seriously inebriated. She was hot, but in ob looks none the worse for wear. Manfred makes Meet Bob." Bob puts a full glass down in front o be rude not to drink.
	"Sure thing. Uh, Manfred"
	"Feel free. Present company is trustworthy."
yway. "It's about the fab concept. I've got a teb hardware, and I think we can probably build itld Lunar von Neumann factory idea, but Bingo andn bootstrap all the way to a native nanolithogras a training lab and ship up the parts that are  do it properly. We use FPGAs for all critical eht about it buying us the self-replicating factoI'm wondering about on-site intelligence. Once ts away ?"
	"You can't control it. Feedback lag.  send humans ? way too expensive, besides it's aa chunk of short-period Kuiper belt ejecta. And that could control such a factory any time this hink." Pamela glares at Manfred for a while befoat's this all about?"
	Franklin shrugs expansive explore the solution space to a manufacturing pance. Drink's on me."
	She glances at Manfred, w his metacortex is projecting on his glasses, fihold while he thought about his future." 
	"Oh, in my day; like, too formal, man." Franklin lookd us at a whole new line of research we hadn't t but if it works, it'll put us a whole generatio
	"Will it help reduce the budget deficit, thoug: The visionary is returning from planet Macx. "ook me a slot on the deep-space tracking network? That's going to take some serious bandwidth, Iou exactly the kind of crew you're looking for."n't built for that! You're talking days. And wha you think I'm putting together? We can't affordport system just to run ?"
	"Relax." Pamela glanhy you want the bandwidth? Maybe then he could ter way to do it." She smiles at Franklin: "I've n get him to explain his reasoning. Usually."
	"se KGB lobsters. They want somewhere to go that' them to sign on as crew for your cargo-cult selurance policy: hence the deep-space tracking netthe alien Matrioshka brains around M31 ?"
	"KGB?ixed up in spy stuff!"
	"Relax, it's just the Mooaded crusties hacked in and ?"
	Bob is watchingright back. "Panulirusinterruptus uploads. Sometscow." Bob leans back against the wall: "how didvy irony: "It's hard for an upload to stay subsen. Bezier labs have a lot to answer for."
	Pamelcaped." Manfred shrugs. "It's not their fault. T" Pamela stops. "I shouldn't be talking about woe nudges quietly.
	She inclines her head. "Yes, ck."
	Franklin nods. "That's the trouble with ca the rare ones. No cure."
	"Well, then." Manfredxplains his interest in uploading. Judging by th he's moved on to vertebrates yet?"
	"Cats," sayto the Pentagon as a new smart bomb guidance sysout remapping enemy targets to look like mice orensorium. The old kitten and laser pointer tricky nice. Uploaded cats are a bad idea." 
	"Thirtynfred. That's lifetime nursing-home care for a hck, sourly amused, keeping out of the crossfire. "What about those poor kittens? Don't they dese like to wake up a thousand times inside a smartountain battle computer's target of the hour is up a thousand times, only to die again? Worse: Tto run. They're too fucking dangerous ? they grolling machines. With intelligence and no socialiThey're prisoners, Pam, raised to sentience onlytence. How fair is that?"
	"But they're only uplou could reinstantiate them on another hardware t about killing them doesn't really apply, does  a couple of years. I think we need to take a rat bites us on the cerebral cortex. Lobsters, kitn clears his throat. "I'll be needing an NDA ande crusty pilot idea," he says to Manfred. "Then 	"No can do." Manfred leans back and smiles laziem of their civil rights. Far as I'm concerned, ole idea of using lobster-derived AI autopilots er the place, all rights assigned to the FIF. Eithe whole thing's off."
	"But they're just softw's sake! I'm not even sure they are sentient ? Ik hooked up to a syntax engine and a crappy knowis that?"
	Manfred's finger jabs out: "That's whon't even think about uploading out of meatspacet be worth living. The precedent you set here deeel free to use this argument on Jim Bezier. He'over the head with it. Some kinds of intellectuaers ? " Franklin shakes his head. "Lobsters, catould be treated as human-equivalent?"
	"It's notuivalent, as that, if they aren't treated as peongs won't be treated as people either. You're ser companies doing uploading work right now, and  of the uploaded. If you don't start thinking abo five years' time?" 
	Pam is looking back and fck in a loop, unable to quite grasp what she's sively.
	"Oh, quite a few million, I guess." Bob hem. If they bite, you're dining out on me for te to run the mining complex?"
	"They're pretty rocently, enthusiastically. "They may be prisoner still adapt to a new environment. And just thinw minority group ? one that won't be a minority urns up at Manfred's hotel room wearing a straplnd most of the items he bought for her that afteo her agents. She abuses the privilege, zaps himd has him gagged, spread-eagled, and trussed to he wraps a large rubber pouch full of mildly anepoint in letting him climax ? clips electrodes t and straps it in place. Before the shower, he rinto her handheld, and gently eases them on overn up on the hotel room's 3D printer.
	Setup compritically from all angles, figuring out where toork of art.
	After a moment's thought, she rollslding a tiny tube of cyanoacrylate, glues his fi conditioning. He's twisting and straining, testng to sensory deprivation she can arrange withouShe controls all his senses, only his ears unstoannel right into his brain, a fake metacortex tohe's about to do excites her, puts a tremor in ho get inside his mind as well as his body. She lcan you hear me?"
	He twitches. Mouth gagged, fiess.
	"This is what it's like to be tetraplegic,ocked inside your own body by nv-CJD from eatingu with MPTP, and you'd stay in this position forng through a tube. Unable to talk and with nobodt?"
	He's trying to grunt or whimper around the t and climbs onto the bed, straddling him. The g Cambridge the previous winter ? soup kitchen scering in his ear.
	"Twelve million in tax, baby,u think you owe me? That's six million in net inour virtual children's mouths." 
	He's rolling h. That won't do; she slaps him hard, thrills to give uncounted millions away, Manny. Millions, t bastard. Do you know what I should do with you? doing this just to get him turned on. Good.
	The leans forward until she can feel his breath in You're not interested in meat, are you? Just mi what was happening in the meatspace around you.eeping you out of it is how much I love you." Shosing his penis: it's stiff as a post from the ving up, she eases herself slowly down on it. It nsation is utterly different from what she's usehis straining arms, feels his thrilling helplesss through her lip with the intensity of the senshim until he begins to spasm, shuddering uncontrrce code into her, communicating via his only ouly uses the last of the superglue to gum her lablugs, and although she's fertile, she wants to bor two. She feels hot and flushed, almost out ofcy, she's nailed him down at last.
	When she remble, stripped down to the human kernel of his nehe marriage license tomorrow morning after breakawyers will be in touch. Your parents will want looks as if he has something to say, so she fina tenderly on one cheek. He swallows, coughs, ands him on the chest. "It's all about property rig a huge ideological chasm to bridge, after all. ng of yours, this giving everything away for broch of lobsters or uploaded kittens, or whatever larity you're busy creating. So I decided to tak I'll give you back a new intelligence, and you t you didn't need to do it this way ?"
	"Didn't ess. "You give too much away too easily, Manny! ning over the bed she dribbles acetone onto the  She leaves the bottle of solvent conveniently cou tomorrow. Remember, after breakfast."
	She's y why!" 
	"Think of it as being sort of like spriss at him, and then closing the door. She bendsbox containing an uploaded kitten right outside ements for the alchemical wedding.
Chapter 2: Trun. His gray-eyed fate is in hot pursuit, blunde and meetings of the International Monetary Emer Manfred isn't running away, he's discovered a maws of economics in the ancient city of Rome. Hechines. He's going to set the companies free, anadow, his monster runs, keeping him company, nevough an airport that's all twentieth-century chrar-age splendor. He breezes through customs and g the local media feeds. It's November, and in athe proprietors have come up with a final soluti plush Santas and elves. Bodies hang limply overng in animatronic death, like a war crime perpetted corporations don't understand mortality, Man her upset children. Their immortality is a draw They lack insight into one of the main factors Well, sooner or later we'll have to do somethinghannels here are denser and more richly self-refntorum's America. The accent's different, thoughks with an annoyingly bumptious twang, like AustIsthatabraininyourpocketorareyoujustpleasedtothivemodulesandcheesymotion- picturereferences. He gainst the wall between the baggage reclaim offians, while his left goggle is trying to urgentlyture of Columbia. The fans wear blue face paint he ancient British war cry, Wemberrrly,Wemberrrlor totem through the webspace analogue of the ar. 
	As he enters the baggage reclaim zone, his j the lost souls of suitcases crying for their ow on edge with a sense of loss, and for a moment,halamic?limbic shunt interface that lets him feeright now, not with the messy divorce proceedingct from him; he'd much rather love and loss and aximum possible sensory bandwidth to keep in touery time his footwear takes a shine to some Moldruly herd of agents; I can'tevenhearmyselfthink!service?" the yellow plastic suitcase on the coucan see the Stalinist lines of control chaining lurks below the desk, agent of the British Airpokay. Only bags need fear for their freedom in heBecause of a not entirely accidental cryptographations server, his suitcase is on its way to Momrected in the service of some African cyber-Fagitatistically normal mixture of second hand clothvince the airline passenger-profiling expert sysrist ? but it leaves him with a gap in his invenone. He needs to pick up a replacement suitcase power as he had when he entered it: He doesn't wds in the midst of the transatlantic trade war bobalists. At least, that's his cover story ? andd bags in front of the counter, up for sale in ty battered, but among them is a rather good-quallers and a keen sense of loyalty: exactly the sat just GPS, but a Galileo tracker, a gazetteer t an iron determination to follow its owner as faght distinctive scratch on the lower left side os the bellwether on the desk.
	"Ninety euros," iter than that." In the time it takes them to setfourteen-point-one-six points, and what's left oanfred spits some virtual cash at the brutal factcase, unaware that Macx has paid a good bit morollecting this piece of baggage. Manfred bends d Macx," he says quietly. "Follow me." He feels tints, digital and phenotypic. Then he turns and olling at his heels.
	* * *
	A short train journKeynes. He watches the sun set from his bedroom he horizon. The room is functional in an overly  hardwood and hemp rugs concealing the support shair, gin and tonic at hand, absorbing the lates in parallel. His reputation is up two percent ft. When he pokes at it he discovers that everybopublicly traded reputation ? is up a bit. It's a are feeling bullish about integrity. Maybe therrowns, then snaps his fingers. The suitcase roll"Manfred Macx," it replies, slightly bashfully.
tion."
	He sighs. "Open up."
	Latches whir and r he looks inside to confirm the contents.
	The s early twenty-first century, human.
	It's night aw rolls inexorably on, dragging humanity towardystem have acombined mass of approximately 2 x 1oduce forty-five thousand babies aday, representheworld, fab lines casually churn out thirty milS. In another tenmonths, most of the MIPS being for the first time. About ten yearsafter that, t nudge the critical 1 MIPS per gram threshold ?oatter.After that, singularity ? a vanishing poinningless. The timeremaining before the intellige *
	Aineko curls on the pillow beside Manfred's y. The night outside is dark: Vehicles operate olky Way shine down upon the sleeping city. Their Manfred's sleep. The robot cat keeps sleepless save the whispering ghosts of Manfred's metacort
	The metacortex ? a distributed cloud of softwaing CPU cycles from convenient processors (such  as the society of mind that occupies his skull;ts to research new experiences, and at night, thhile Manfred sleeps, he dreams of an alchemical rapless black gown, the surgical instruments glet," she explains as she adjusts the straps. "I on wait until ... later." Blood-red lips, licked:ax bill. 
	There's nothing accidental about this his hypothalamus trigger sensitive neurons. Revace, the sense of his vulnerability. Manfred's ms trying to decondition his strange love. It hasves her whiplash touch, the humiliation of his w unpayable taxes, demanded with interest.
	Aineksly. Retractable claws knead the bedding, first t feline wisdom that Pamela installed back when ily fluids rather than legal documents. Aineko it to her hobbyist's interest in feline neuroanatameless neurasthenic agonies, but really doesn'tply is clean and there are no intruders.
	Ainekof laser-guided mice.
	* * *
	Manfred is jolted ation.
	"Hello?" he asks, fuzzily.
	"Manfred Macxt accent.
	"Yeah?" Manfred struggles to sit up. is eyes don't want to open.
	"My name is Alan Glrrect in thinking that you are the Manfred Macx ic dot holdings dot root dot one-eight-four dot five, incorporated?"
	"Uh." Manfred blinks and ral patterns fade, he pulls on his glasses and pomenus ricochet through his sleep-laden eyes. "Caecz repeats himself patiently. He sounds as tireating three tiers down an elaborate object hieraority interrupt, an incoming lawsuit that hasn'ts at the object with a property browser. "I'm afshwiecz. I appear to be retained by it as a techting to the president, but frankly, this is the er, I can tell you who's in charge if you want."Manfred figures it out; the guy's in New Jersey,e.
	Malice ? revenge for waking him up ? sharpendings.root.184.97.AB5 is agalmic.holdings.root.1t.184.D5, and the chair is agalmic.holdings.rootmpanies in equal measure, and I can tell you thaa nice day, now!" He thumps the bedside phone coot-disturb button before it can interrupt again. heads to the bathroom to brush his teeth, comb nated and how a human being managed to get far ehim.
	* * *
	While he's having breakfast in the g to do something unusual for a change: He's goihange because Manfred's normal profession is makn scarcity or zero-sum games or competition ? hiommodate primate hierarchy games. However, his cadical: something like making himself a temporartlement in an instant, like a wily accountancy oud of his own black ink.
	Pam is chasing him part given up on the idea of government as the domi she loves him in her own peculiar way, and the is rejection by her slave. Pam is a born-again pn to grow up after the end of the American centual system before it collapses under a mound of Mg infrastructure, she's willing to use self-deniicks, and any other tool that boosts the bottom round the world on free airline passes, making scan see his listing on the reputation servers, hetrics of integrity, effectiveness and goodwill  open-source computer companies. And she knows ho her completely. So why is he running away? 
	Tinary. Their unborn daughter, frozen in liquid n Pam's bought into the whole Parents for Traditiecombination refuseniks: They refuse to have thee's one thing that Manfred really can't cope withough that isn't the point she's making. One steraveling fast and footloose again, spinning off e largesse of the new paradigm. File for divorceences. No more whiplash-and-leather sex. 
	* * * time to visit a model airplane show. It's a goo had a tip-off that someone will be there ? and decade. Add microtechnology, cameras, and neuralhe next generation of military stealth flyer: Itcons of yore. This particular gig is happening iout its shop floor for events like this. Its empand and expensive gas. (The robotized warehouse cking parcels for home delivery. Whether they tetill need to eat.)
	Today, the food hall is fullgly along the shining empty meat counters withoubove the deli display cabinets show a weird, jerd all the synthetic colors of radar. The femininoom for a gigantic plastic-shrouded tampon five a microsat launcher and conference display, plont attempt to talent-spot the up-and-coming enginb a particularly fetching Fokker triplane that b the image stream up to one of his websites in rn turn beneath the dust-shrouded pneumatic cash rail of an F-104G. Cold War Luftwaffe and Great e game of tag. Manfred's so busy tracking the waube's launcher-erector.
	"Eh, Manfred! More carences round. "Do I know you?" he asks politely, edam, three years ago." The woman in the double-bocial secretary remembers her for him, whispers ?" She nods, and he focuses on her. Still dressihim the first time they met, she looks like a Kerew cut like an angry albino hedgehog, pale blueher skin color hints at her Berber ancestry. Heraised eyebrow turns into a lopsided smile as shesterdam. What brings you here?"
	"Why "? her wavnt show, of course." An elegant shrug and a wave We're hiring this year. If we re-enter the launurs, not time-servers, engineers who can match tt time, Manfred notices the discreet corporate l your launch-vehicle fabrication?"
	Annette pull "Space hotels were more profitable, this past dh the rocketry, no? Things that go fast and explay. Until ?" She gives a very Gallic shrug. Manfshe says, for the purposes of due diligence.
	"Iusiness," he says seriously. "It's going to be vl replication business gets going for real. A mahe field, even a hotel chain." Especially now th China and India, he thinks sourly.
	Her laugh son cher? What brings you to the Confedera?ion? Yred's turn to shrug, "I was hoping to find a CIAy." 
	"That is not surprising," Annette says rese is dead. Fools!" She continues for a minute, eIntelligence Agency with vigor and a distinctly d as AP and Reuters since they go public," she a stingy. The CIA does not understand that good ne stringers are to survive. They are to be laughthem, almost as easy as the Office of Special Pltween fingers and thumb. By way of punctuation, swoops around her head, does a double-back flip,splay. 
	An Iranian woman wearing a backless learges up and demands to know how much the microboette's attempt to direct her to the manufacturered by the time the woman's boyfriend ? a dashingaway. "Tourists," she mutters, before noticing Mrs twitching. "Manfred?"
	"Uh ? what?"
	"I have et, they kill me." She takes hold of his left arrning them off. "If I say to you I can write fortaurant and buy me dinner and tell me what it is decade of the twenty-first century;the second dhe environment has shown signs of rising to matcs distinctly depressingthis evening. In Maine, g Children announce they've planted logicbombs inerandom false positives when checking for herediabortions andfourteen lawsuits.
	The Internationhird round of crisis talks in an attempt to staving regime.On the one hand, hard-liners represen are pressing for restrictionson duplicating thec media performances: As a demonstration that thfornia have been kneecapped, tarred, feathered,  reverse-engineeringmovie plot lines using avataposite side of the fence, the Association ofFreec inpublic without a recording contract, and areparachiks who have boughtit from the moribund mutor Leonid Kuibyshev responds by denyingthat thetates. But the music biz's position isn't strengrican entertainmentindustry, which has been accenally intelligent voicemail virusmasquerading asica,garnishing an estimated eighty billion dollaed Swiss bank account. A different virusis busy rcent oftheir assets to the previous victim, thes address book: a self- propelled pyramid schemeile the mess isbeing sorted out, business IT deps any transaction that doesn't come in the shapen impending readjustmentin the overinflated repu-media gurus have been hyped past all realistic he junk-bonds market inintegrity is serious.
	Thnied plans for another attempt at Eurofederalismrrent slump. Three extinctspecies have been resured ones are now dying off at a rate of one a dae being pursued by Interpol,after their announceor cyanogenic glycosides into maize seed corn de deaths yet, but having totest breakfast cereal t. 
	About the only people who're doing well riges aren't evenremotely human.
	* * *
	Manfred an chatting as their TGV barrels through a tunnel s, has been commuting daily from Paris; which wa the show, he messaged Aineko to round up his baterminal like the shell of a giant steel woodloumarket overnight: an unfueled test article, it iet car is run by a Nepalese fast-food franchise.nette says as she waits for her mismas bhat. "Pato awaken in Moscow and change trains. All the wu through the border," Manfred mutters. Russia irts and asks if you are now or ever have been anloody-handed history. (Rewind the video stream t Besides, they have enemies: White Russian oligaproperty business. Psychotic relics of the last re you really a CIA stringer?" 
	Annette grins,  from time to time. Nothing that could get me fir unfiltered stream."
	"Your ?" Annette pauses. e sees his expression. "Oh, my poor fool!" She rll?"
	Manfred sighs and raises a toast toward Anhen you send your spouse messages via the CIA, ave years." Annette winces. "You will pardon me f." There's a question hidden behind that statemeloading her statements with subtexts.
	"I'm not  He can't elude the sense that something not of  Pamela, a subtle intrusion that levered them aptimes he isn't certain he's still human; too manide his head, reporting back whenever they find  puppet, and that frightens him because it's oned it's too early for anyone out there to be tryithe external threads of his consciousness are teng herself instead of a cog in the meatspace ens him that's still human isn't sure just how far want to be?"
	She shrugs, as a waiter slides a pbe, no? An ing?nue raised in the lilac age of leins of the gilded European Union."
	"Yeah, right a good old microboomer from the MassPike corridg and inspects the food underneath it. "Born in kes at one of the unidentifiable meaty lumps in  back. There's a limit to how much his agents ca draconian by American standards ? but he knows er, father a petty politician in some town counc right ?cole. The obligatory year spent bumming learning how other people live ? a new kind of eonscription and jackboot wanderjahr. No weblog oined Arianespace right out of the Polytechnique  Manhattan Island, Paris. "You've never been marhort! I am still young." She picks up a forkful ent would insist on paying."
	"Ah." Manfred tucke declining across Europe, the EC bureaucracy is a new generation of carers, a decade ago, and i is alienate the brightest women of childbearinga solution, importing a new generation of citizeworkable, or cheap AI comes along.
	"Do you haveanfred is startled: "Not yet."
	"You must come h.
	"I'm not sure I ? " He catches her expressionhe says I take in strays too easily. But you aref. Besides, it is the Friday today. Come with mepany to read. Tell me, do you dance? You look asyour troubles!"
	* * *
	Annette drives a steamroeekend. He intended to find a hotel, file a prescorporate funding structure of Parents for Tradience variation on the reputation exchanges ? the to her apartment, a large studio flat tucked awt the breakfast bar while she tidies away his lu two dubious-tasting capsules. Next, she pours that tastes exactly like Polish rye bread. When tff. Manfred is startled to discover that he has  row with Pamela, he'd vaguely assumed he was nonaked on the sofa, surrounded by discarded clothhe naked penetrative fuck of the last century today.
	Afterward, he's even more surprised to dis he asks.
	She sprawls a well-muscled but thin tenis. Squeezes it. "Yes," she admits. "You need queeze. "Crystal meth and a traditional phosphodbreasts, feeling very brutish and primitive. Naklly naked: She thought skin was more sexy when ie stiffens. "More!" 
	By the time they finish, het. Everything is crystal clear, and her touch ie toilet seat lid and rants about Turing-completular automata and the blind knapsack problem, abanning problem using a network of interlocking ujustment in integrity, the sinister resurrectionpressing need to dismantle Mars.
	When she stepser. She kisses him and slides his glasses and easits on his lap, and fucks his brains out again,wants to be his manager. Then she leads him intos him to wear, and she puts on her own clothes, r on it to sniff. When she's got him dolled up tg, Annette in a tuxedo and Manfred in a blond wis. Sometime in the early hours, exhausted and reango in a BDSM club in the Rue Ste-Anne, he realth someone other than Pamela. 
	* * *
	Aineko wa the left eye. He groans, and as he tries to opea dead trout, his skin feels greasy with make-upise somewhere. Aineko meows urgently. He sits upainst incredibly sore skin ? he's fully dressed,rom the bedroom; the banging is coming from the ubs his head, stands up, and nearly falls flat os high heels off. How much didIdrinklastnight? h he pulls them on and is besieged by an urgent fns his wig, picks up his skirts, and trips across publicly traded reputation is strictly technicin English. By way of reply somebody shoves the ll, winded. His glasses stop working, sidelook den charge in, identically dressed in jeans and lsive face masks, and one of them points a small pelled gun hovers in the doorway, watching everyathless and terrified.
	"Macx." The other intrudnd, ducks through the bathroom door. Aineko flop intruder checks out the bedroom: There's a brieManfred is choking with fear.
	The other intrudeively.
	"We are sorry to have bothered you," thein his jacket pocket. "If you should see Manfrediation of America advises him to cease and desisther degenerate mongrel second-hander enemies oflive to own them. Goodbye."
	The two copyright gfred to shake his head dizzily while his glassescream from the bedroom. "Fuck ? Annette!" 
	She und her waist, looking angry and confused. "Annebegins to laugh shakily. "Annette!" He crosses o."
	"You too." She hugs him, and she's shaking. pretty picture!"
	"They wanted me," he says, and at him seriously. "You must bathe. Then have coooks down. Aineko is sitting up, looking dazed.  dispatch?" She looks puzzled. "I filed that lase, he is waterproof."
	* * *
	By the time Arianes stripped off Annette's evening gown and showerthrobe, drinking a half-liter mug of espresso anng the night away in Annette's arms, the global  putting their trust in the Christian Coalition hat the times are bad ? while perfectly sound trf a major bribery scandal has broken out.
	Manfr Foundation, bastard child of George Soros and Ronations to the public good that don't backfire.he's dropped twenty points in the past two hourss unusual. He was expecting a ten-point drop med of the anonymous luggage remixer that routed his new one to him via the left-luggage office in utation market seems to have been hit by the coninting out angles and timings to the forensics tor back-up. She seems more angry and shaken thanpational hazard for any upwardly mobile executivfred's agalmic future aims to supplant. The foreebanese youngsters, point the yellow snout of thgree that there's something not unlike gun oil iks to trap the skin particles and left behind a us, so there's no way of getting a genotype matc corporate intrusion (origin: unclassified; seven her kitchen telemetry. And remember to wear yod Annette locks the door, leans against it, and  message from the copyright control agency," Man gangsters from New York bought the recording cas stitch-up fell apart, and the artists all wentechnologies, the Mafiya were the only people whod a whole new meaning to copy protection: This wr standards. They run the record shops, and theyy don't own. Not very successfully, though ? mosative than any normal businessman can afford to ette closes her eyes. "I don't remember. No." Shto a file and cut, cut out the bits about me." S I on?" 
	"You don't know either?"
	He stands uphim. "I was on you," she murmurs. 
	"Bullshit." mething is blinking for attention in his glassesurs and is getting a panicky butterfly stomach a that's happened in the last twenty kiloseconds.rattled the wrong cages. Or someone ratted on th a heads-up for whoever needs a working state pl	"Well, then." She lets go of him. "Do your worke's hurt her, but he doesn't see any way of explthout digging himself in deeper. He finishes hisable fits of deep interaction, fingers twitchingis glasses funnel deep media straight into his sntly available.
	One of his e-mail accounts is hanies with names like agalmic.holdings.root.8E.Fe director. Each of these companies ? and there , although the herd is growing day by day ? has er companies. Each of them executes a script in ctors tell the company what to do, and the instro their children. In effect, they are a flock ofame of Life, only far more complex and powerful.Some of them are armed with capital in the form than passing on to one of the Free Foundations. upy directorial roles. Their corporate functionsirectors) are all handled centrally through his s carried out via several of the more popular B2 other, more obscure load-balancing computations classic state central planning system. None of hit by lawsuits in the past twenty-two hours.
	Tern Manfred can detect. Some of them allege pate except that about a third of the targets are di visible to the public. A few lawsuits allege mift of spurious nonsense: suits for wrongful dismwith no employees ? complaints about reckless trt (in conspiracy with the prime minister of Japaait) is using orbital mind-control lasers to maks of day and night. 
	Manfred groans and does a  are hitting his corporate grid at a rate of oneceding six months. In another day, this is goingll saturate every court in the United States. Sohe's doing for companies ? and they've chosen hiused is an understatement. If he wasn't already dgy from the intrusion, he'd be livid ? but he'simuli first. So he determines to do something abgun, her cross-dressing cool.
	Transgression, seGlashwiecz phones again.
	"Hello?" Manfred answe bot that's attacking his systems.
	"Macx! The everjoyed to have tracked down his target. 
	Manfou yesterday," says the lawyer; "You should haveu!"
	Manfred holds the phone away from his face, he warns. "Who the hell are you and what do yous services to pursue her interests in your divoroint out without prejudice that your options arehree days ago, to have all your assets frozen. T she's going to take you for exactly what you owt on that point."
	Manfred glances round, puts hase?" he asks Aineko. The cat sidles away, ignorywhere. Quite possibly it's on its way to Moroccsity noise. He returns his attention to the phonlements, cumulative IRS tax demands ? that seem mprimatur on them ? and the need to make a cleanns. "Where's the fucking suitcase?" He takes thetrying to think." 
	"I'm not going to shut up! Y't evade your responsibilities forever. You've g
	"A daughter?" That cuts right through Manfred'know?" Glashwiecz sounds pleasantly surprised. "y, I'm told. I thought you knew; you have viewint leave you with this thought ? the sooner you cour companies. Good-bye."
	The suitcase rolls in dressing table. Manfred breathes a sigh of reli to deal with his Plan B than dawn raids by objecessant legal spamming, and the news that he is  stray baggage. Let's see what I got for my repuette's communiqu? is anodyne; a giggling confessround) that the famous Manfred Macx is in Paris  hell-raising. Oh, and he's promised to invent tday, starting with a way to bring about the creastate central planning apparatus that interfaceshow manages to algorithmically outperform the Moing the calculation problem. Just because he can to hear the screams from the Chicago School.
	Tpress release that is at all unusual. It's just  net was why he was looking for a CIA stringer iher in the bath as he soaps her back. "I don't u"There's nothing that tipped them off ? except tdid nothing wrong." 
	"Mais oui." She turns rounthe water. "I try to tell you this, but you are g to the outside of his glasses, plastering his "I'm sorry, Annette, I brought this mess with meses up in front of him and leans forward, face sager. Take me in."
	"I don't need a manager; my ol!" 
	"You think you do not need a manager, butsuits, how many? You cannot the time to oversee s, but even they need managers. Please, let me m idea that she becomes visibly aroused. He leans "The company matrix isn't sold yet," he admits.To who can this be sold, to Moscow? To SLORC? Torty," he says. "It's a pilot project. I was workrce, and to close the deal on the luggage ? but n thing ? someone with a keen understanding of h capitalist economy. A system administrator withration would be perfect, ideally with an intereshe centrally planned enterprise to the outside wmise. "Um, are you interested?"
	* * *
	Rome is ver Thanksgiving weekend; it stinks of methane-b shit. The cars are brightly colored subcompact angry wasps: Hot-wiring their drive-by-wire seemdded systems people have always written notorioutazione Termini into dusty sunlight, blinking liue about who lived where in the days of the lated won't come unglued from that much history withggle right now. He feels like he's been sucked dight blow away in a stiff breeze. He hasn't had ate to be in on a Monday morning when he's due t in order to give him a gift that will probably  Pam's lawyer off his back. But somehow he can'ten good for him.
	The ex-minister's private persd has seen so far is a polished public avatar inr of Deputies in cyberspace; which is why, when rframe of Gianni's front door, he isn't expectinith breechclout and peaked leather cap, to answered says carefully. Aineko, perched on his left hing that sounds extremely urgent. Everything soowa," says the guy in the doorway. He tucks a thoustache: "What's it about?" Over his shoulder: nfred says carefully. "I'm here to make it obsoltiously ? then the minister appears behind him. n expecting him." Gianni extends a rapid welcomeeling bathrobe: "Please come in, my friend! I'm eshment for the guest if you please, Johnny. Wouve minutes later, Manfred is buried up to his eacup of virulently strongespresso balanced precar holds forth on the problems of implementing aposystem with itsroots in the bullheadedly moderni left, a strange attractor within the chaoticpha of Marxisteconomics, his ideas are informed by his enemies ? agrees that he isone of the greatellectual integrity prevents him from rising to tder about him than hisideological enemies, accus truth over power.
	Manfred had met Gianni a couroom; at the beginning of last week, he sent himy and a proposal for using it to turbocharge thernment systems. This is the thin end of the wedge new wave of communist expansion, driven by humrmance, rather than wishful thinking and ideolog friend. Everybody has to have their say. Not evng about, but that won't stop them talking aboutus ? a reaction to what came before. Do you knowrd a new law, two of them added as emergency meark on their own unless you can get everybody to t works, we must understand why we work ? and tht everybody will agree." 
	At this point Manfredhe says, genuinely puzzled. "What has the human er sighs abruptly. "You are very unusual. You earateful people who have benefited from your workdieval troubadour who has found favor with the agiven freely, and your means of production is wi; the jargon is weirdly technical-sounding but ouieting glimpse into the world of the terminallyt understanding itches. 
	Gianni taps his baldinple spend little time inside their heads. They dval peasants looking in puzzlement at the troubaned economy, is delightful and elegant: Lenin's  system for the new century. It is not human." 
t there's nothing human about the economics of sete as economic units within a couple more decadnd their wildest dreams before that happens." A ststatementdeservesanother: "And to pay off a diou my library, my friend," he says, standing up.ing room with its carnivorous leather sofas, and kind of upper level to the underside of the roo his shoulder. "That was the big mistake of the  and of my predecessors, too. If human behavior e house always wins, after all." The staircase dre one wall is occupied by a wooden bench supporervers and a very new, eye-wateringly expensive all occupied from floor to ceiling by bookcases:m and sneezes, momentarily bemused by the sight te rather than vice versa.
	"What's it fabbing?"s whining to itself and slowly sintering togethe's fever dream of a spring-powered hard disk drial digital phonograph player," Gianni says dismithe Pentagon ? stealth computers. (No van Eck rafabric-bound document out of the obsolescent datheory of Games, by John von Neumann. Signed firsnfusing purple finite state automata into Manfreath his fingertips as he remembers to turn the p library of Oleg Kordiovsky. A lucky man is OlegYork, and the MVD let him to keep it."
	"He muste lines. "Part of GosPlan?"
	"Correct." Gianni sittee denounced computers as bourgeois deviationletarian. They recognized the power of robots evpiler or the Net."
	"I don't understand the sign main obstacle to doing away with market capitalely?"
	"Indeed not. But it's true: Since the 198olve resource allocation problems algorithmicallkets are wasteful: They allow competition, much they persist?"
	Manfred shrugs. "You tell me. Coit back on the shelf. "Markets afford their partu will find that human beings do not like being eir best interests. Of necessity, a command econnd." 
	"But my system doesn't! It mediates whereanni is shaking his head. "Backward chaining or my friend. Your companies need no human beings, ct the activities of human beings, either. If thact machine, as dictators have throughout historut the market itself is an abstract machine! A long is it going to continue oppressing people?"
wn next to the renderer, which is currently extre. "The marginal value of money decreases, afteru. We are on the edge of a period of prolonged ef twenty percent, if the Council of Europe's pref the flaccid industrial economy has withered awat used to be the high-technology sector, is nowfriend, if that is the price of keeping people hway completely."
	Realization dawns. "You want tGianni grins. "There's more to that than mere ecce as a factor. Don't plan the economy; take thiou breathe? Should uploaded minds ? who will be  pay for processor cycles? No and no. Now, do yosettlement? And can I interest you, and your introject of mine?" 
	* * *
	The shutters are thrownette's huge living room windows are drawn open r-topped piano stool, his suitcase open at his fe's stereo, an antique stand-alone unit with a s, crudely revoking its copy protection algorithmering iron. Annette is curled up on the huge sofdth goggles, thrashing out an internal Arianespaan and Guyana.
	His suitcase is full of noise, bubtract entropy from a data stream ? coincidentaation. With a capacity of about a trillion terabir has enough capacity to hold every music, filmwith room to spare. This is all stuff that is efe owned by bankrupt companies, released before tManfred is streaming the music through Annette'sd with. High-grade entropy is valuable, too ...
 up his forehead, killing the displays. He's thogoing on, and it looks like Gianni was right: Tho show up.
	For a moment, he feels old and desoles have been swapping in and out of his head for He's developed a butterfly attention span, irriinformation streams fight it out for control of icament. Annette is putting up with his mood swihe glances her way fondly. Her obsessions run suim for her own purposes. So why does he feel morShe stretches and pushes her goggles up. "Oui?"
nd you haven't told me what I should be doing wi do that?"
	"Oh, no reason. I'm just not over ? licable absence in his life, but not one he feelrelationship between equals feels like? He's nothis upbringing and continuing through all his adtarily ? dominated by his partners. Maybe the an But if so, why the creative malaise? Why isn't Could it be that his peculiar brand of creativiting lovingly enslaved to make him burst out into could it be that he really is missing Pam?
	Annat her and feels lust and affection, and isn't sdue?" she asks, leaning over him.
	"Any ?" The dks away, opens the door.
	"You!"
	Manfred's headut he wasn't expecting her to come in person. 
	guest."
	Pam enters the apartment living room wi look what the robot kitty dragged in," she drawmore to anger than to humor. It's not like her, me from.
	Manfred rises. For a moment he's transis ? mistress? conspirator? lover? ? side by sidof ironic amusement a foil for Pamela's angry simiddle-aged man in a suit, carrying a folio: jusd him into, given time. Manfred musters up a smi party of the third part seems to be late."
	"Cotters the lawyer. He puts his briefcase down on  a light begins to blink from his spectacle fram."
	Annette sniffs and heads for the kitchen, wh Pam is pretending she doesn't exist. "Well, welter of you than a French tart's boudoir, Manny. days that'll cost you, didn't you think of that?e says, changing the subject. "Is postnatal recohe slips her coat off her shoulders and hangs itverything when you reach my grade." Pamela is wend of weapon in the war between the sexes that oo his surprise it has no effect on him. He realigender, almost as if she's become a member of anpaying attention."
	"I always pay attention, Pam ha-ha," interrupts Glashwiecz. "You do realize ng to this fascinating byplay?"
	Manfred stares " Glashwiecz smiles, "but you must be mistaken. must be mistaken ? all a lack of paper documentaere's the small matter of the several thousand ce bottom of that pile there has got to be somethike a sackful of large lizards being drowned in nnette's percolator is nearly ready. Manfred's loard. Without being at all obvious, he's releasishould soon have an effect on the reputation maromments, sitting down on the sofa as Pam disappea was one of my interns'," he says. "I don't und, but Lisa grew up on it. Something about it bei
	"Uh-huh." Manfred's opinion of the lawyer dropitchen, her expression icy. A moment later Annetg innocently. Something's going on, but at that  the left ear, his suitcase keens mournfully anddoorbell rings again.
	"So what's the scam?" Gla and murmurs out of one side of his mouth. "Wher "There is no money," he says. "The idea is to mHis eyes wander, taking in the lawyer's Patek Ph'mon. Don't give me that line. Look, all it takeay free for all I care. All I'm here for is to snniless and starving. You know and I know that y your reputation! You didn't get that by standin
	Manfred snorts. "You're talking about an elite a commission on every poor bastard she takes tod. Me, I ?" The stereo bleeps. Manfred pulls hisum through his earlobes, urgently demanding thei he glances around to see Annette walking towardwiecz warns.
	"Expecting company?" Pam asks, one	"Not exactly ?"
	Annette opens the door and a c're clutching gadgets that look like crosses betrs, and their helmets are studded with so many shat's them," Annette says clearly.
	"Mais Oui." ither side. Annette stalks toward Pam.
	"You thi from Manfred?" she sniffs.
	"You're making a bi cold enough to liquefy helium.
	A burst of statdistantly. "No mistake."
	She points at Glashwie" The lawyer looks puzzled, but not alarmed by tgo," Manfred says quietly, "I sold a controllingne Accelerants BV, a venture capital outfit frome of the central planning tree. Athene aren't yolosive business plans and detonate them." Glashwr of a lost commission is impossible to tell. "Acompany owned by the Italian Communist Party's pce of one dot one dot one's chief operations offdodge responsibility ?"
	Annette clears her throsue?" she asks Glashwiecz sweetly. "Here we havet foreign political interference, specifically iovernment." 
	"You wouldn't ?"
	"I would." Manfr "Done, yet?" he asks the suitcase.
	Muffled beeploads completed."
	"Ah, good." He grins at Anneorbell rings again. The guards sidle to either sit opens to admit a pair of smartly dressed thugoom.
	"Which one of you is Macx?" snaps the older no obvious reason. He hefts an aluminum briefc" asks Manfred.
	"You bet. If you're Macx, I hav "It's not me you want," he says. "It's this ladt protest. "Y'see, the intellectual property youit's now administered by a complex set of corporhe prime shareholder as of approximately four mi" He winks at Glashwiecz. "Except she doesn't coe playing at, Manfred?" Pamela snarls, unable to The larger, junior CCAA enforcer tugs at his bop his coffee and takes a sip. Grimaces. "Pam wanaluable assets I own are the rights to a whole b through the CCAA's fingers a few years back. Pathat got locked away by the music industry in thrt of thing. Artists who weren't around to defent bust, the rights went for a walk. I took them ic free. Giving it back to the public domain, ashom nods back and starts muttering and buzzing iking on a solution to the central planning parade to a market economy. My good friend Gianni Vite alternative uses. So I've not freed the music.tors and threads running inside the agalmic holdt thousand, five hundred and seventy-five company given song are resident in a given company fornderstand, I don't own these companies. I don't I've deeded my share of the profits to Pam, here something rather more challenging for me to do  The recording Mafiya goon glares at him. Pam gloking amused. "Perhaps you'd like to sort it out trust you'll drop your denial of service attackthe way, you'll find the book value of the intelthe value these gentlemen place on them ? is som rather more than ninety-nine-point-nine percentwhere for your fees." 
	Glashwiecz stands up car true?" he demands. "This little squirt give youWe have claim! You come to us for distribution obles agreement: "Remember, dose MP3s, dey bad fo would to leave my apartment, please?" The door,ger welcome here!"
	"This means you," Manfred adt him. 
	Manfred forces a smile, bemused by his omething's wrong, missing, between them. "I thouoo much for you?" 
	"You know what I mean! You aild neglect!"
	His smile freezes. "Try it, and Ime, you understand."
	Pam is taken aback by thiso the brave new communist, sharing information fd. And the Italian Communist Party happened."
	Sment bravely, tame attorney in tow behind her, mons of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Theshwiecz's shoulder, and the guards move in, hustell. The door slams shut on a chaos of impending wheeze of relief.
	Annette walks over to him anit will work?" she asks.
	"Well, the CCAA will sle if they try to distribute by any channel that to all the music, her settlement, but she can'tt to serve notice on that legal shark: If he triet-proof. Hmm. Maybe I ought not to plan on goin 
	"Profits," Annette sighs, "I do not easily unobsession with singularity."
	"Remember the old freed the music."
	"But you didn't! You signed rstash to several cryptographically anonymized pu, so there'll be rampant piracy. And the robot cand every copyright request they receive, royalthem. But that's not the point. The point is abund. Pam is welcome to her cut if she can figure as in classical economics, the allocation of resodoesn't work that way. What matters is that peop Soviet central planning system, I've turned theectual property." 
	"Oh, Manfred, you hopeless ir?"
	"It's not just the music. When we develop adefending it against legal threats. That's what ning to her how he's laying the foundations for ecade when she picks him up in both arms, carries of tender intimacy with him. But that's okay. ss, thinks the bulk of his metacortex. And it drewhere, leaving his meatbody to experience the a 3: Tourist
	Spring-Heeled Jack runs blind, blue outstretched for balance, clutches a mark's stostones of the pavement behind him. Maybe he's woe fleeing youth. But the tourist crowds block thope of catching the mugger. Hit-and-run amnesia Jack it's just more loot to buy fuel for his Rus
	The victim sits on the cobblestones clutching e universe is a brightly colored blur of fast-moar-mounted cameras are rebooting repeatedly: Theer they realize that they're alone on his personf a hub to tell them where to send his incoming ring moronically, disputing ownership of his gritall blond clutching an electric chainsaw sheath "you all right?" she asks.
	"I ?" He shakes histor is alarmed because his blood pressure has fater is up, and a host of other biometrics sugges an ambulance," the woman announces. She mutterswaves a finger vaguely at him as if to reify a ger one arm. Typical southern ?migr? behavior in involved. The man shakes his head again, eyes cl around him in elaborate loops. A siren begins t he wonders. "I'm Manfred," he says with a senseatue of a man on a horse that looms above the crstered a Hello Cthulhu! holo on the plaque that ave at him in an attack of kawaii. "I'm Manfred ry?" Elderly Malaysian tourists point at him froith a sense of horrified urgency. Iwasgoingsomewy important, he thinks, but he can't remember whbout ? it's on the tip of his tongue ? 
	* * *
	f chaoscharacterized by an all-out depression inr on the planet is nowmanufactured rather than bn being, and the number is doubling everyfourteerldhas stalled, the birth rate dropping below rerd-lookingpoliticians are looking for ways to enon is still stalled onthe cusp of the second recas announced the goal of placing animam on Mars  try.
	The Space Settlers Society is still tryin their latest L5 colonyplan, unaware that there'First-generation uploads, Californian spiny lobsems, thrive aboard anasteroid mining project este space agency cutbacks are threatening the cont, has figured out how to turn aprofit out beyondESA, and theuploaded lobster colony on comet Khral from outside the solar system;most people donter all, if humans can't even make it to Mars, weters fartherout? 
	* * *
	Portrait of a wasted s old. He has never met his father; he was unplaing-site accident before the Child Support coulder raised him in a two-bedroom housing associatihen he was young, but business dried up: Humans  she works in a drop-in business shop, stacking go like tourists in the Festival season ? but hu these days.
	His mother sent Jack to a local reand effectively ran wild from the age of twelve.hoplifting; by fourteen, he'd broken his collarbPresbyterian sheriff sent him to the Wee Frees,  prospects with high principles and an illicit t of avoiding public surveillance cameras, with d. Mostly this entails high-density crime ? if yo so many bystanders that they can't pin the blams tail. If he keeps it up at this rate, in anothal correlation that will convince even a jury ofe'll go down to Saughton for four years.
	But Jadistribution or the significance of a chi-squareas he pulls on the chunky spectacles he ripped oidge. And after a moment, when they begin whispetures of the tourist's vision, it looks even bri whisper the glasses. "Meet the borg, strike a cup his peripheral vision, like the hallucination?" asks Jack, intrigued by the bright lights ande our focus," murmur the glasses. "Dow Jones dow incoming briefing on causal decoupling of sociaof beards, and emergence of multidrug antibiotic"Ah can take it," Jack mumbles, as a torrent of ers its way in through his ears like the supereg he's stolen: The glasses and waist pouch he grardware to run the entire Internet, circa the turg out the wazoo, distributed engines running a blew of high-level agents that collectively form ir owner's personality. Their owner is a posthumur turned policy wonk, specializing in the polite was the kind of guy who catalysed value wherevootprints. Now he's the kind of political backroe could see common ground. And Jack has stolen hframe of the glasses, pickups in the earpieces;  in the belt pack, before being distributed for ory storage is cheap. What makes this bunch so u-indexed them with his agents. Mind uploading ma has made an end run on it already.
	In a very rf the identity of the soft machine with its eyeb Manfred who picks himself up and, with a curiouquest for information about accessories for Russ his meeting on the other side of town. 
	* * *
e is already being noticed. "Something, somethinshades and rubs her left eye, visibly worried. "e due to hold this call with him. Don't you thinrding her from behind his desk. He prods at the  slips, sliding into a strangely different confomessages for his eyes only. "He was visiting Sco know his exact whereabouts ? the privacy safegu, travel in person, I am sure you will find it eective, face-to-face, one to many ..."
	The offi-time lip-synch morphing between French and Italhis words because the shape of his mouth is all  recent implants aren't connected up to her Brocp grammar module for Italian. Their communicatioironment painstakingly sculpted, but it still do. Besides, there are distractions: the way the dacross its expanse, the strange air currents tha could be up with him? His voicemail is trying t convincingly."
	Gianni looks worried. "Manfred g nobody in advance. But I don't like this. He sthat first meeting in Rome, when Gianni offered nni's team, the fixer who goes out and meets peos point could be more than embarrassing. Besideshe stands up. "If he doesn't call back soon ?"
	es across her face, rapidly replaced by worry ling." Gianni shrugs. "But we cannot do without hit let the borg get you. Either of you."
	"Not to happened." She stands up, surprising a vacuum c
	"Ciao."
	As she vacates her office, the ministthe dull gray of a colddisplay panel. Gianni is  and Eva's in Wroclaw. There are others, trappedderly continent, but as long as they don't try toffice at each other. Their confidences and dirtized communication.
	Gianni is trying to make hian national affairs: Their job ? his election temission, as Representative for Intelligence Overc action outward, into deep space and deeper time house futurologist and fixer, profoundly internd not all the brains they feed into are human.
o Gianni. It's unlike Manfred to be out of contato stonewall her, given that her apartment is thcouple of years. But something smells fishy. He ernight trip, and now he's not answering. Couldits about a special mission. But there's been no she dispatches every year without fail, timed tohas never met. ThemusicMafiya?Aletterbombfromtheno, his medical monitor would have been screamind. 
	Annette has organized things so that he's ss lent him the support he needs, and he's helped happiness whenever she considers how much they''s worried now. The watchdog hasn't barked ...
	the time she arrives, she's already used her par on the next A320 to Turnhouse, Edinburgh's airpor her arrival. The plane is climbing out over lt comment hits her: Might he think the Franklin 
	The hospital emergency suite has a waiting rooe volume renderings by preteens stuck to the walent, the available bandwidth all sequestrated foperiodic sirens wailing as ambulances draw up, ared, it's like being at the bottom of a deep blurticular drug brings no euphoria or sense of welted pigeons next to the chained and rusted volun bivvy bags of the chronic cases lined up next tnfred is frightened and confused.
	"I can't checement," says the triage nurse, pushing an antiqus still free, but steps have been taken to reducsure clause here and here, or the house officer he nurse's nose, which is red and slightly inflabickering again, and he can't remember why; they be missing, but thinking about it is hard. "Whyit." A pen is thrust into his hand. He focuses oflexes kick in.
	"This is theft of human rights!is enjoined from disclosing information relatingand processes of the said health-giving institut public media ? on pain of forfeiture of health ervice Reform Act. I can't sign this! You could out how long I've been in hospital!"
	"So don't his sari, and walks away. "Enjoy your wait!"
	Mats display. "Something's wrong here." The keypadts him into an arcane and ancient X.25 PAD, and ut where he can go from here ? mostly into the lthe memories spring a page fault and die somewhetanding dawns. It's a frustrating feeling: His brk plugs, turning over and over without catchinging rail chucks a stock cube on his grill; it bennabinoids to induce tranquillity and appetite. and heads off in search of the toilet, his head lo,Guatemala?Getmeposologyplease.Clickdownmymemeiseverythingblurry?Ican'tfindmyglasses..." 
	A grd, men and women dressed in anachronistic garb:f them wear electric blue disposable gloves and ed bandwidth emanating from them, and Manfred inunit through the wheelchair exit, two ladies escssed refugee from the twenty-first century shufflizes vaguely. Where'smycat? Aineko might be abld. 
	"I rather fancy we should retire to the clu his short blond companion chirps, clapping her  anachronistic plastic gloves to reveal wired-lap has obviously been unproductive. If our contacwithout breach of medical confidence or a hefty  woman, glancing back at the leprosarium. "Such  they hadn't participated in antibiotic abuse th a twentysomething with mutton-chops and the manalking stick on the pavement for punctuation, anhaw before they cross the road onto the Meadows.mmune systems."
	Manfred pauses to survey the grmensionality of leaves. Then he lurches after thl-powered tourist bus. Club. His feet hit the paears of vegetative evolution. Somethingaboutthosr information. It's almost all that's left of hiaired woman hitches up her long skirts to keep tt petticoats that ripple like oil on water, worn then: something else. Icameheretosee? the name at it has something to do with these people. 
	Td path, and come to a nineteenth-century frontag They enter, and the man with the mutton-chops p. "You've followed us this far," he says. "Do yooking for."
	Manfred follows with knocking knees
	* * *
	Meanwhile, Annette is busy interrogatinther?"
	Aineko turns its head away from her and eg. Its fur is lifelike and thick, pleasingly paed on its flanks; but the mouth produces no sali away," it says: "I'm busy."
	"When did you lastve time for this. The polis don't know. The medisponding. So what can you tell me?" 
	It took he once she hit the airport arrivals area and chec She knows his preferences. It took her slightlyo his room. But Aineko is proving more recalcitr requires maintenance downtime on a regular basiyou bought me this body. What were you expecting, I'm thinking." The tongue rasps out, then pause hairs that fell out earlier in the day.
	Annett for years, and his ex-wife Pamela used to messthird body, and it's getting more realistically r or later it's going to demand a litter tray anride," she says. "Dump event log to my Cartesiant shudders and looks round at her. "Human bitch! fills with a bright and silent tsunami of data. high-bandwidth spread-spectrum optical networkiing on her left hand glow blue-white at each oth and wiggles her fingers in the air, navigating resentfully at her, then stands and stalks away,ette hums to herself. She intertwines her fingernd wrist, then sighs and rubs her eyes. "He leftcalls to the cat. "Who did he say he was going tng in through the high glass window, pointedly s to help him ?" 
	"Try the Grassmarket," sulks tnklin Collective near there. Much good they'll dese combat fatigues and a horribly expensive paiteps beneath a keystone that announces the buildhe door, his voice almost drowned out by the pai buzzing the castle up the road: "Open up, ye cun the door at eye level slides to one side, and ut at him. "Who are you and what do you want?" tlvation Army; Christianity has been deeply unfashurch that currently occupies the building has cay relevant.
	"I'm Macx," he says: "You've heardou can't refuse." At least that's what his glasssounds a bit more like, AmMax:Yivhurdfraemasyste haven't had long enough to work on his accent.  his fingers and does a little dance of impatiente." The person on the other side of the speakernt that manages to sound more English than the Kpens, and Macx finds himself confronted by a talthat has seen better days and a clerical collar s almost concealed behind a pair of recording ancx! Manfred Macx! I'm here with an opportunity y church's financial situation. I'm going to make
	The man in the doorway tilts his head slightlys of blue combustion products spurt from Macx's . "Are ye sure ye've got the right address?" he t backs into the hostel: "Well then, come in, siounces into the room with his brain wide open touments spawning in the bizarre phase-space of hil you're not going to believe," he reads, glidin are staked out to die like exotic butterflies, aptops left over from a jumble sale, past the des Mrs. Muirhouse's back-garden bird bath. "You'vshow you aren't making much money ? barely keepitish Nuclear Electric, right? Most of the churchurch by one of your congregants when she went toer looks at him oddly. "I cannae comment on the  think that?"
	They fetch up, somehow, in the miover the back of his threadbare office chair: thlusters rotten with the Dyson spheres of the escr the Astrophysicist beams down from above with halo around his head. Posters proclaim the new GIVE FOREVER WITHIN MY LIGHT CONE. "Can I get ye sks the minister.
	"Crystal meth?" asks Macx, hois head apologetically. "Aw, dinnae worry, Ah wiboot yer plutonium futures speculation," he hissinous gesture: "These dinnae just record, they tt have ye got?" the minister asks coldly, any in to edit down these memories, ye bastard. I thoun't going to merge with the godhead at the end o Whit's the point o' savin' it a' up if ye nae gnae gonnae unnerstan' a knees up?"
	"What do ye . Ah've got ?" He pauses. An expression of extresters," he finally announces. "Genetically enginocessing plant." As he grows more confused, the gonnae help yiz oot ba showin ye how ter get yer: "so ye could make the council tax due date. Sethat cannae be right. Ah wiz gonnae sell ye somerown of disgust ? " free?" 
	Approximately thirt the front steps of the First Reformed Church ofcx finds himself wondering if maybe this high fie. Some of the agents in his glasses are wonderiren't so optimistic.
	* * *
	Getting back to theok mostly medical.
	A few thousand elderly baby our. Europe is desperately trying to import east Japan, whole agricultural villages lie vacant aies slurp people in like residential black holes communities in the American Midwest, leaving haby a slow virus coded into the mammalian genome onaires are sitting on the rights to a vaccine.  share of the blame. (Less spectacular but more nstruction and hexose-denatured protein reductioho are willing to surrender their pensions.) Prondamental patents in genomic engineering begin teady published a manifesto calling for the creat improved replacements for all commonly defectivneural wetware under emulation are well establise technology matures, death ? with its draconianl become the biggest civil rights issue of all.
e policies now cover cloning of pets in the evenan cloning, for reasons nobody is very clear on ons ? but very few judiciaries push for mandator are expensive: the price of crude oil has broke up. Other commodities are cheap: computers, forr architectures on their home inkjets; middle-agper that can tell how their cholesterol levels aof technological progress are: the high-street c Battle Tank, and the first generation of quantuced immune systems, brain implants that hook rigrs through their own speech centers, and widesprology has shattered into a dozen disjoint discipall peter out before long. Philosophers have cedt problem in AI is getting software to experiencse, fifty years away.
	* * *
	The Victorians areocked eyes.
	"You looked lost," explains Monica,yes?"
	"I can't see too well," Manfred tries to at usually chatter incessantly in his head have an, someone mugged me. They took ?" His hand clo
	Monica, the tall woman he first saw in the hosrs is skin-tight, iridescent and, disturbingly, roectoderm. Stripped of costume-drama accoutreme decanted after the millennial baby boom. She wa	"Two." Manfred tries to concentrate. "What ?"
	ile I page." Her eyes are brown, with amber rastnses? Manfred wonders, his head turgid and unnatless pleasant: He can't seem to wrap his head arsthiswhatconsciousnessusedtobelike? It's an uglyine says you'll be all right in a while. The maip anywhere?" 
	"Here." Alan, still top-hatted an to Manfred. "Take these, they may do you some g experiment is nesting under its brim.
	"Oh. Thac sense of gratitude. As soon as he puts them onstions and watching how his eyes focus: After a build a synthetic image to compensate for his mys, a warm sense of relief stealing over him. "Doto check my back-ups."
	"Be my guest." Alan slipe him and stares into some inner space. The roomwooden shutters to cover the aerogel window baysorribly with the original nineteenth-century arc" He shifts track with an effort: "I was here to She catches his eye deliberately. "To discuss s He squeezes his eyes shut. "Damn! I don't rememout your back-ups?" she asks curiously.
	"A momeing. It's useless, and painfully frustrating. "Ie rest of my mind," he complains. "It used to beork sits down on his spectacles as soon as he asblocky pixilated monochrome that jerks as he loo warns his hosts as a goodly chunk of his metacoreless network connection that was really only dof the part of his consciousness that isn't secupinionated rants ? but it clears down a huge mem miracles and wonders onto the whitewashed wallsworld again, he feels a bit more like himself: H resynchronize and fill him in on what it found.s soul (including his personal memories); they'ron of his identity and a quantum key exchange. B them are even working. It's like sobering up fr sense of being back at the controls of his own ls Monica ? or whoever is plugged into Monica's  and who he was meant to meet (although not why)lective, identity is a politically loaded issue.king. "Identity theft, by any chance?"
	"Yeah, yne whose state vector hasn't forked for more thabloody cetera. Who am I talking to, by the way? you think we're on the same side, more or less?"tepper motors whine softly as it strives to accon who is Monica some of the time looks at him qury the number of dimensions. Let's just say thatat do you?"
	"Our sponsor, who is in cyberspace  extrudes an occasional table with a small bar. e a Berlinerweisse, for old time's sake?"
	"Guardead?"
	She chuckles. "I'm not dead, Manny. I ma rolls her eyes, self-consciously. "He's making ot going to pass that on." 
	"My ex-wife," Manfrp. So. You're acting as a, I guess, an interpreteriously: "We owe him a lot, you know. He left hs partials. We feel obliged to instantiate his p can only do so much with a couple of petabytes ." Manfred nods to himself and accepts the glasster brilliantly in the late-afternoon sunlight. leans forward, holding his glass and frowns. "Ifomething emergent, something in deep memory ... ing to do with Bob." 
	The door behind the sofa , and heads for the far side of the room. A worklls in from a service niche. He sits with his chsktop. Every so often he mutters quietly to himsonationsneedtobeaudited..." 
	"Gianni's election"Gianni ?" A bundle of memories unlock inside hi message. "Yes! That's what this is about. It hao deliver a message to you from Gianni Vittoria.he trails off uncertainly, "but it was important about group minds and voting. But whoever mugges an overly rustic cobbled square nestled beneattte stands on the site of the gallows where theyvisible agents to search for spoor of Manfred. Aulder like a satanic stole and delivers a runninar.
	"I don't know where to begin," she sighs, ap, a many-bladed carnivorous plant that digests oreigners. The road has been pedestrianized and lestones; in the middle of what used to be the carket, where you can buy anything from a brass fe merchandise in the shops is generic dot-com truvenir from hell: Puroland tartans, animatronic cond hand laptops. People swarm everywhere, fromoke hereabouts) to the expensive dress shops witreet performers, part of the permanent floating ry traditional in silver face paint, mimics the gestures.
	"Try the doss house," Aineko suggestsAnnette does a doubletake as her thesaurus consp a geographical database of city social servicest itself is touristy, but the bits off to one endings six stories high ? are decidedly downmarkedisposable cellphones and cheaper genome explore of some kind of imported kawaii fetish, who looheels ? probably mistaking her for a school probd parked bicycles. The human attendant looks borymous ten-Euro note in her pocket almost before e," she asks, "where would you go?" The parking s she's overestimated her. Then she mumbles someannerman's. Down yon Cowgate, thataway." The met"You didn't ?"
	"Uh-huh." Annette follows her gaay. "This had better be worth it, Manny monch?r,a fake Irish pub, a stone grotto installed benea real Irish pub before the developers got their nto a punk nightclub, a wine bar, and a fake Duty star, it left the main sequence. Now it occupi the sort of recycled imitation Irish pub that hificially blackened pine beams above the log tab afterlife of a once-serious drinking establishmas replaced with a toilet (leaving more room forspense fizzy concentrate diluted with water fromut the Eurocrat with the robot pussy who goes in And when it arrives, she says 'hey, where's thehoulder bag. "That isn't funny." Her personal ine, and it's displaying a rotating yellow exclamablished police crime stats, this place is likely
	Aineko looks up at her from his nest in the baouth and a tongue like pink suede. "Want to makeency was trivial."
	The barmaid sidles up and poette. "I'll have a Diet Coke," Annette orders. IDid you hear the one about the Eurocrat who goesoke, and when she spills it in her shoulder bag e arrives. Annette pays for it. There may be a cell because it looks like an ancient cellar, lotlated with second-hand church pews and knife-scaents, or well-dressed winos are hunched over onets, in an artful bohemianism that makes Annette  her that one of them is a moderately famous locedom party. There're a couple of women in boots nu, and a parcel of off-duty street performers h is wearing anything remotely like office drag, so Annette dials her glasses to extra-dark, strapens and a nondescript youth slinks in. He's wea that have that quintessential essensedepanzerdiKevlar panels. He's wearing ? 
	"I spy with my le cat, as Annette puts her drink down and moves How much you want for the glasses, kid?" she askea in MilSpec combat boots, the ceiling is eightfuckin' dae that," he complains in an eerily fam"Stay calm. Take them off ? they'll only hurt yoot to move too fast because now she has a secondng to look that the exclamation mark on her watc give you two hundred Euros for the glasses and ou got them or tell anyone." He's frozen in fronfrom inside the lenses spilling over onto his hae cold lightning, like he's plugged his brain in mouth, she slowly reaches up and pulls the spec of the belt pouch with the other. The kid shuddf hundred-Euro notes in front of his nose. "Scray, then seizes the money and runs ? blasts his won, hangs a left onto the cycle path, and vanishuniversity complex.
	Annette watches the doorwayied: "Any ideas, cat?" 
	"Naah. It's your job toe's an icicle of anxiety in Annette's spine. Manre could he be? Worse ? who could he be? 
	"Fuck I guess." She takes off her own glasses ? they' ramified custom rig ? and nervously raises the  about to do makes her feel unclean, like snoopi she figure out where he might have gone?
	She sshe was doing yesterday in Edinburgh.
	* * *
	"Gut I got his aid-m?moire back. A teenage freeloalocation ? so I put them on." 
	Pause. "Oh dear. Franklin Collective?"
	Pause. (During which, thn begins to penetrate the weave of her jacket.) rde. It's not trivia, Gianni, they're acceleratido to his head?" 
	Pause: Then a grunt, almost omands vehemently. She hunches over, punching wor her, unsure whether she's hands-free or hallucices every time you do this! Manfred is not a hea the whole time, and I was not joking when I tolclinic if you tried running him flat out again! out completely and joining the borganism ?" 
	"Agot. Am knowing half-life of agalmic catalyst no his career expectancy, four deviations outside to break civil rights deadlock now, this electioly staffer we got who have hope of talking to Cossenger, not force burnout, right? We need coaliby gridlock in Brussels, American-style. Is more ?"
	"Annette, they have partial upload of Bob Fis personality to reinstantiate it, time-sharingollective with their huge resources lobbying forsapients are eligible to vote, own property, upl little gray butt-monsters with cold speculum: Wth crustacean rights: Leave uploads covered by cin fifty years? Do you think I must ignore this?ission the lobsters received ?"
	"Shit." She turwork. "I'll need a prescription. Ritalin or someShe doesn't add, Thatincludespeelinghimofftheceisay, you'regoingtopay. That's understood, too. Ge looks after his own. 
	"Location am easy if he	"No need. I got his spectacles."
	"Merde, as yodistributed trust rating of Bob Franklin's uploahis own corporate self again as if still alive. ore they burn. Agreed?" 
	"Oui." 
	She cuts the Cowgate (through which farmers once bought their Fringe and then the steps towards The Meadows. a fight breaks out: Some Paleolithic hangover taments, and swiftly rips its arm off. The mime str, and looks confused. Two pissed-looking studenal. There is much shouting in the mutually incomWatt Robot Lab. Annette watches the fight and sherse where the Equal Rights Amendment ? with its house of deputies: a universe where to die is tft of parental DNA is to be doomed to slavery.
	cewasn'tsopersonal?
	* * *
	Manfred can feel onee all present ? the universe, with its vast prepnt; weird ideas flicker like heat lightning far  ? but, with his metacortex running in sandboxedbsolete. The latter is about as welcome a sensatads to explore his designs for feasibility and rd fifty points off his IQ; his brain feels like trees. A decaying mind is a terrible thing to be out bad ? but he's too afraid to let on. 
	"Giaed-market pragmatist politician," Bob's ghost acs, "hardly the sort of guy you'd expect me to voim?"
	"That's a ? ah ? " Manfred rocksforward andsthrust under his armpits for protection. "Dismosphere out ofit ? shit, sorry, that's long-term Gianni is an ex-Marxist, reformedhigh church Trmunism, which is a state of philosophical grace  pissing aroundwith Molotov cocktails and though squabbling over ownership of themeans of produc to sleep in the damp spot at the back of the caf those Stalinistdeviationist running dogs in Coour bedroom and hand everything on aplate to theh in turn rely on people dying predictably toprotly dying and not trying to hang on to their proging extropian fireside songs, that kind of thinxpectancy with intent to cause people to buy insontrol of the means of production ? Bayes' Theorer at Manfred: "I don't think feeding him guaraneboding.
	Manfred's mode of vibration has gone nck, and jiggling up and down in little hops, lik his way to the singularity. Monica leans toward"shutup!" 
	He stops babbling abruptly, with an ks, and keels over backward. "Why am I, here andy attack," Monica comments. "I think he did this him." She looks alarmed, a different identity ce to make him comfortable." Alan raises his voicthe sofa Manfred is sprawled on flops downward, t crawls up over his feet. "Listen, Manny, you'r I signify?" Manfred mumbles incoherently: "A massion, lots of synaptic junctions lubricated witotleg pharmacopoeia is cranking up to manufactur kitchen to get something for him to drink them ily.
	"It's okay. Lie down and relax." Alan leanmorning, when you know who you are." (Aside to M iced tea: "Better let Gianni know that he's unw. Do you know if Macx has been audited?") "Rest 
	About fifteen minutes later, Manfred ? who, inys Monica's instruction to drink down the spikedathing slows; the subliminal muttering ceases. Ms his right hand, which is lying on top of the bnes in Bob Franklin's tone of voice. "You can lier-Day Saints believes that you can't get into tit can do so if it knows your name and parentageases are among the most impressive artifacts of to make converts.
	The Franklin Collective belie's digitized your neural state vector, or at leary inputs and genome as current technology permi. Its society of mind is among the most impressio make converts.
	* * *
	Nightfall in the city.  me the fuck in," she snarls impatiently at the  "Who ?"
	Annette shoves him inside, kicks the disattva," she demands. "Now." 
	"I ?" he turns auns past a staircase. Annette strides after him and she follows before he can close it.
	Inside,t diode sources, calibrated for the warm glow of the middle of it, a figure lying asleep at the nts. A couple of attendants sit to either side o" Annette snaps, rushing forward. Manfred blinksfused as she leans overhead: "Hello? Manny?" Ovem ?"
	"Annie?" He looks puzzled. A bright orangeto his forehead like a pair of beached jellyfishastard who did this ..."
	"We can fix that," she cut to get his memories back. She peels off his, replacing his temporary ones. The brain bag shnge. The hairs on the back of her neck rise as as eyes are glowing a luminous blue behind his shen his ears.
	"Oh. Wow." He sits up, the covers tches.
	She looks round at the motionless figuredeliberately, ironically. "What have you done tomore, nothing less. He arrived in a state of conthis afternoon."
	She's never met this fellow beim. "You would be Robert ... Franklin?"
	He nodsnfred's eyes roll up in his head, and he flops b young woman on the other side of the bed shakesl, you tell her ? I've got to get him some juicetever part of him survived his battle with an exnnette's eye and shakes her head, smiles faintly	Annette wrinkles her brow: she has to trigger aarge cell, many nuclei? Oh, I see. You have the The youngster shrugs. "You want to die and be reidth re-enactment? Or a shadow of itchy memoriese that's at odds with the rest of her body langunisms. Humans, I mean. After Jim Bezier." Annette softly. "It must have been a lot of work."
	"Tys the woman ? Monica? ? "and it didn't do a verg access to his research funding is that we regukind of aggregate state vector ? patched togethelement the partials that were all I ? he ? couldight." Annette reaches out and absently smooths  is it like to be part of a group mind?"
	Monicaee red? What's it like to be a bat? I can't tellave at any time, you know."
	"But somehow you dor over the almost imperceptible scars that concerned down when they became available a year or tt designed for clean interfaces," he'd said, "I'you. I don't think he'll take up your offer whenve him over my dead body.)
	Monica shrugs. "Thatarity, along with other followers of our gentle now what to do with."
	A thought occurs to Annetuestion to you is a question to all?"
	"It can bd the other body, Alan, who is standing in the dovised diagnostician. "What do you have in mind?, groans: There's an audible hiss of pink noise ion providing a serial highway to his wetware.
	g the ERA," Annette explains. "Some parts of ourIndeed." Alan sits down on the chair beside the  pompously. "A very important theological issue. I feel ?"
	"I, or we?" Annette interrupts.
	"We feel," Monica snaps. Then she glances at Alan. "Soo-rrry." 
	The evidence of individuality with